Write up files section (#25)
directus/docs: content/6.files/5.transform.md

::callout{type="info" title="Focal Points"}

When transforming an image with `width` and/or `height` parameters, the focal point is taken from the `focal_point_x` and `focal_point_y` coordinate values stored in the file object, cropping the image around these. This defaults to the image's centre.

::

::snippets
#rest

```http [GET /assets/c984b755-e201-497e-b0a7-24156ad9c7e0?width=300&height=300&quality=50&fit=contain]

```

#graphql

Not supported by GraphQL

#sdk

```js
import { createDirectus, rest, readAssetRaw } from '@directus/sdk';

const FILE_ID = 'c984b755-e201-497e-b0a7-24156ad9c7e0';

const directus = createDirectus('directus_project_url').with(rest());

const result = await directus.request(
  readAssetRaw(FILE_ID, {
    width: 300,
    height: 300,
    quality: 50,
    fit: 'contain',
  }),
);
```

::

## Advanced Transformations

> Directus offers direct exposure to the sharp API, giving you access to more complex operations on images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Directus allows full access to the [Sharp API](https://sharp.pixelplumbing.com/), giving you access to more complex image transformations.
```

> This is done using the transforms parameter, whose value consists of a two dimensional array. Each sub-array contains the name of the operation, followed by its arguments: `[["operation1", …arguments], ["operation2", …otherArguments]]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done using the `transforms` parameter, whose value consists of a two dimensional array. Each sub-array contains the name of the operation, followed by its arguments: `[["operation1", …arguments], ["operation2", …otherArguments]]`.
```

> ::callout{type="info" title="REST values"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::callout{type="info" title="REST Values"}
```

Title casing for titles

---

# Transform Files

> Directus allows you to fetch thumbnails or processed images using a varied set of parameters. You can pass these as either query parameters to our REST API or via the Directus SDK. If a processed image does not yet exist, it is dynamically generated and returned accordingly.

Reviewer: Can we remove 'thumbnail' from our nomenclature - it's used nowhere else. I think 'transformed assets' would be better.

```suggestion
Directus allows you to transform assets using URL query parameters. You can pass these as either query parameters to our `assets` endpoint. If a processed image does not yet exist, it is dynamically generated, stored, and returned.
```

The SDK just generates the URL.

## Downloading a File

To download an asset with the correct filename, you need to add the `?download` query parameter to the request and the
`download` attribute to your anchor tag. This will ensure the appropriate
[Content-Disposition](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec19.html) headers are added. Without this, the

> download will work on the _same_ domain, however it will have the file's "id" as the filename for cross-origin requests.

Reviewer: Move to accessing files page - this isn't about transforming.

### Example

```html
<a
  href="https://your-directus.com/assets/<file-id>?download"
  target="_blank"
  download="Your File.pdf"
  >Download</a
>

> ```

Reviewer: No need for an example here.

> ## Requesting a Thumbnail

Reviewer: Remove this heading as the whole page is about transforms. Promote all other headings one level up

Fetching thumbnails is as easy as adding a `key` query parameter to the original file's URL. In the Data Studio, you can
configure different asset presets that control the output of any given image. If a requested thumbnail doesn't yet
exist, it is dynamically generated and immediately returned.

### Preset Transformations

- **`key`** — This **key** of the [Storage Asset Preset](/user-guide/settings/project-settings#files-storage), a

>   shortcut for the below parameters

Reviewer: Custom first, which provides context for custom. Can you please explain where to do this?

Also notices 'is as easy' in the first para in this comment - take a sweep for these terms.

| `format`             | What file format to return the image in. One of auto, jpg, png, webp, tiff auto default if omitted, Will try to format it in webp or avif if the browser supports it, otherwise it will fallback to jpg.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `fit`                | How the image should fit into the provided dimensions, values including: <ul><li>**`cover` (default if omitted)**: try to fit the image into the dimensions while preserving the aspect ratio</li><li>**`contain`**: contain within the dimensions while using “letterboxing” to fill the rest</li><li>**`inside`**: Resize to be as large as possible within the dimensions</li> <li>**`outside`**: sesize to be as small as possible within or beyond the dimensions</li></ul> |

::callout{type="info" title="Focal Points"}

> When transforming an image with `width` and/or `height` parameters, the focal point is taken from the `focal_point_x` and `focal_point_y` coordinate values stored in the file object, cropping the image around these.

Reviewer: Otherwise, it is center... make sure to mention

  readAssetRaw(FILE_ID, {
    width: 300,
    height: 300,
    quality: 50,
    fit: 'contain',
  }),
);
```

::

### Advanced Transformations

Directus offers direct exposure to the sharp API, giving you access to more complex operations on images.

This is done using the transforms parameter, whose value consists of a two dimensional array. Each sub-array contains the name of the operation, followed by its arguments: `[[“operation1”, …arguments], [“operation2”, …otherArguments]]`.

::callout{type="info" title="REST values"}

When calling the REST API, datatypes like booleans need to be passed as strings.

::

| sharp API Call                           | transforms Equivalent                                          |
| ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.rotate(90)`                            | `[[“rotate”, 90]]`                                             |
| `.rotate(90).blur(10).tint(255, 0, 255)` | `[[“rotate”, 90], [“blur”, 10], [“tint”, “rgb(255, 0, 255)”]]` |
| `negate({lower: 10, upper: 50})`         | `[["negate", {"lower": 10, "upper": 50}]]`                     |

> 

Reviewer: Make sure quotes are straight - there's some curly ones in here

::snippets
#rest

```http [GET /assets/c984b755-e201-497e-b0a7-24156ad9c7e0?transforms=[["rotate", 90],["blur", 10],["tint", "rgb(255, 0, 255)"], ["negate", {"lower": 10, "upper": 50}]]]

```

#graphql

Not supported by GraphQL

#sdk

```js
import { createDirectus, rest, readAssetRaw } from '@directus/sdk';

const FILE_ID = 'c984b755-e201-497e-b0a7-24156ad9c7e0';

const client = createDirectus('directus_project_url').with(rest());

const result = await client.request(
  readAssetRaw(FILE_ID, {
    transforms: [
      ['rotate', 90],
      ['blur', 10],
      ['tint', 'rgb(255, 0, 255)'],
      [
        'negate',
        {
          lower: 10,
          upper: 50,
        },
      ],
    ],
  }),
);
```

::

> Custom and advanced transformations can also be used in conjunction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom and advanced transformations can also be used together.
```

No point for big word
